##HelloWorld Java Program
The classic "HelloWorld" program almost becomes the Unwritten standards for those people who will start to learn a new programming language. So Let's begin with a simple Java program that displays the message **Hello world** on the console.The program looks like below:
 ####HelloWorld.java
```
1 public class HelloWorld {
2     public static void main(String[] args) {
3         //This is a comment line
4         System.out.println("Hello World!");
5     }
6 }
```
_output_
> Hello World

<hr/>

>Note that the line numbers are for reference purposes only; they are not part of the program.
 So, don’t type line numbers in your program.
 
 
 Line 1 defines a class.Every Java program must have at least one class.Each class has a name.By convention the name start with a Uppercase letter and in this example it is `HelloWorld`
 
 Line 2 defines a method called `main`.The Main method is the entry point where the program begins to execute.The `main` method here contains just one line:`System.out.println("Hello World!)`.This statement display the *Hello World* message on the console.Notice the parameter passed to the `println()` method.The type of this parameter is `String` and must be enclosed in double quotation marks.And notice that every statement in Java ends with semicolon(;).
 
 Line3 defines a comment line.In Java, comments are preceded by two slashs(//)on a line which called a line comment ,or enclosed between `/*` and `*/` on one or serveral lines ,called a block comment or paragraph comment.when compiler sees `//` it ignores all the text after `//` on the same line.When it sees `/*` it scans for the next `*/` and ignores any text between `/*`and `*/`.Here are the examples of comments:
 ```
 // One line comment in Java
 /* multiline comment in java this is the first line */
 /* this is the second line
this is the third line */
```
 
 A pair of curly braces in a program forms a block that groups the program's components({}).
 each block begins with opening brace({)and ends with a closing brace(}).And you should notice that once you define an opening brace you must immediately define a closing brace otherwise there will be a missing-brace error here.With modern IDE you don't need to worry this anymore since it will automatically insert the closing brace for each openning brace and in case there are miss pair braces the IDE will detect it and warning the programmer to handle this.
 
 >Java source programs are case sensitive.It would be wrong if we replace the `main` method with `Main`.
 
 You have seen several special characters (e.g., { }, //, ;) in the program. They are used
 in almost every program. Below table summarizes their uses.

| Character | Name | Description |
| :---:| :----: | :----: |
| {} | Opening and closing braces | Denote a block to enclose statements |
| () | Opening and closing parentheses    | Used with methods     |
| [] | Opening and closing brackets    | Denote an array    |
| // | Double slashs    | Precede a comment line    |
| "" | Opening and closing quotation marks    | Enclose a string    |
| ; | Semicolon    | Mark the end of a statement    |

The most common errors you will possibly make as you learn to programming is the syntax errors.And because of this you will need to confirm the syntax rules.If your program violates a rule-for example, if the semicolon is missing, a brace is missing or a word is misspelled-the Java compiler will report the syntax errors.

Once you understand the program before it is easy to write a little bit more complicated one,checkout the source code below:
```
public class HelloWorldMultiMessage {
       public static void main(String[] args) {
           System.out.println("Hello world!");
           System.out.println("Programming with!");
           System.out.println("Java is Fun!");
       }
   }

```

>output
```
Hello world!
Programming with!
Java is Fun!
```

These code are farly simple ,just invode the `System.out.println()` method three times and pass it different `String` parameter.


#####checkpoint
- What is a keyword?List some Java keywords.
- Is Java case sensitive?What is the case for Java keywords?
- What is a comment?Is the comment ignored by the compiler?How do you denote a comment line and a comment paragraph?