#Compute ectangle Area
> Writing a program to compute the rectangle area with given widht & height.

This program will read  *width & height* from user input in the console.The width & height will be passed to the `main()` method in the `class`.
The formula of computing a rectangle is *Rectangle Area = Width * Height*.

So the procedure will be:
1. Read the user input for rectangle width & height;
2. Compute the rectangle area in the `main()` method in `class`;
3. Display the output on the console.

Listing below gives a implementation:

```$xslt

1 import java.util.Scanner;//Scanner is in the java.util package

2 public class ComputeRectangleArea {
3     public static void main(String[] args) {
4        //Create a scanner object
5        Scanner scanner = new Scanner(System.in);
6        //read width that user typed in console
7        double width = scanner.nextDouble();
8        //read height that user typed in console
9        double height = scanner.nextDouble();
10        //compute the area
11        double area = width * height;

12        //show the result in the console
13        System.out.println("Rectangle Area is:" + area);
14    }
15 }
```

####`import` keyword
Line1 use the `import` keyword in Java to import the necessary library needed of current program.

The import keyword is used to make classes and interfaces available and
accessible to the current source code, without specifying fully qualified
package names. 
There are two types of `import` statements:
1. *specific* import
2. *wildcard* import

The specific import specifies a single class in the import statement. For example, the following statement imports Scanner from the package java.util.
`import java.util.Scanner;`


The wildcard import imports all the classes in a package by using the asterisk as the wildcard. For example, the following statement imports all the classes from the package
java.util.
`import java.uitl.*;`

####`Scanner` class
Line5 defines a new instance of `Scanner` class by using the `new` keyword.The `Scanner` class is defined in the `java.util` package.This class can read the input from console